The Project Gutenberg eBook of Grandma's Recipes for Mother and Daughter,
by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Grandma's Recipes for Mother and Daughter

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: June 4, 2021 [eBook #65507]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GRANDMA'S RECIPES FOR MOTHER AND
DAUGHTER ***




                           GRANDMA’S RECIPES
                              _for_ MOTHER
                                  AND
                                DAUGHTER


                       BREADS, MEATS, VEGETABLES

                        CAKES, COOKIES, DESSERTS

                    GRANDMA’S OLD FASHIONED MOLASSES
           CONTAINS NO SULPHUR DIOXIDE OR OTHER PRESERVATIVES

  ©1950 by American Molasses Company, 120 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.
                            Litho in U.S.A.




                                MOLASSES


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Molasses, a product of sugar cane, is a part of the American tradition
and has graced American tables since the days of the first colonists. It
played a very important role in the building up of the early commerce of
Colonial New England where it was and still is considered an everyday
food. In this part of the country, the molasses jug is as commonplace as
the salt and pepper shaker.

The wise buyer who wants the best of all molasses for every purpose will
study the many grades of molasses now on the market. These grades range
all the way from top-quality products with a smooth, rich, mellow
flavor, down to blackstrap, a low quality with a bitter “black” flavor.

The finest molasses is produced in the British West Indies where the
production of molasses is a major industry and is closely supervised by
the government.

From these islands and elsewhere the buyers of the American Molasses
Company select the best of each grade and by skillful blending and
careful aging produce Grandma’s Unsulphured Molasses with its sweet,
rich, and delicate aromatic flavor.

No molasses in which sulphur dioxide is used as a clarifying agent is
permitted to go into Grandma’s Molasses—the finest of all molasses
blends.

    [Illustration: Grandma’ Molasses]

                         AMERICAN MOLASSES COMPANY
                   120 WALL STREET · NEW YORK 5, NEW YORK
            330 East North Water Street    Chicago 11, Illinois
           601 Montgomery Street    San Francisco 11, California
             1300 West 3rd Street    Los Angeles 17, California
             400 No. Gayoso Street    New Orleans 19, Louisiana
             15 West Queen Street    Wilmington, North Carolina
                          BOSTON MOLASSES COMPANY
                 920 EAST 1st STREET • SO. BOSTON 27, MASS.




                     FOOD FOR FLAVOR AND NUTRITION


    [Illustration: FOOD FOR FLAVOR AND NUTRITION]

The quality of Grandma’s Unsulphured Molasses is the secret of its
delightful flavor. Pour some on a teaspoon—notice its rich, golden-brown
color—now taste it and enjoy its sweet, smooth flavor. Its purity is
guaranteed, for it is not bleached—it does not contain sulphur dioxide
or chemical preservatives of any kind. That’s why Grandma’s Unsulphured
Molasses is so different from ordinary molasses.

Grandma’s Molasses is an all-purpose molasses. Use it at the table over
waffles, on bread, or in milk. Use it in your favorite recipes. There’s
always a dish that calls for Grandma’s Molasses. From morning fruit and
cereal to dinner main dishes and desserts, you will find just the recipe
you need in this booklet.

The concentrated juice of sugar cane is the source of Grandma’s
Unsulphured Molasses. This high-quality molasses contains the natural
health-giving sugars and minerals squeezed from sun-ripened cane. The
cane juice is carefully concentrated to produce molasses of the finest
flavor and the most appetizing color.


SUGAR is needed—especially by active people—to supply heat and energy.
Grandma’s Unsulphured Molasses has a high sugar content. It contains
cane, dextrose, and levulose sugars. Grandma’s Molasses is a _natural_
sweet which can boast of more than energy value—it contributes zest and
extra nutritional values—that is why it is referred to as “nature’s most
nutritious sweetener.”


IRON is essential in the daily diet—for children and adults—to help
build red blood—to help prevent nutritional anemia due to lack of
iron—and to help build buoyant health.

Several foods are generally referred to as _especially valuable_ sources
of iron. Among these are molasses, liver, and spinach. Molasses is
several times richer in this mineral than is spinach and ranks near
liver in its rich iron content.

Grandma’s Unsulphured Molasses is a convenient and rich source of
nature’s iron.


CALCIUM is essential in the diet of people of all ages. It is especially
important for growing children and for pregnant and lactating mothers.
Calcium helps build strong bones and teeth and steady nerves.

Grandma’s Unsulphured Molasses is considered a fair source of this
important mineral.


VITAMIN B₁ is essential to good appetite and steady nerves. Molasses
contains some of this important vitamin.




                          _Table of Contents_


  MOLASSES—Food for Flavor and Nutrition   Inside Front Cover and Page 1
                                                                    Page
  MEATS—VEGETABLES                                                     3
      Glazed Ham                                                       4
      Panned Glazed Ham                                                4
      Pineapple Upside Down Ham Loaf                                   4
      Barbecue Sauce                                                   4
      Baked Lima Beans                                                 5
      Baked Beans (Quick Method)                                       5
      Baked Canned Beans                                               5
      Baked Acorn Squash                                               6
      Glazed Carrots and Onions                                        6
      Mashed Sweet Potato Casserole                                    6
  CAKES                                                                7
      Plantation Cake                                                  8
      Marble Cake                                                      8
      Applesauce Cake                                                  8
      Molasses Feather Cake                                            9
      Molasses Sponge Cake                                             9
      Devil’s Food Cake                                               10
      Old Fashioned Fruit Cake                                        10
  TOPPINGS, FROSTINGS, AND SAUCES                                     11
      Old English Hard Sauce                                          11
      Molasses Whipped Cream                                          11
      Molasses Butter Frosting                                        11
      Boiled Taffy Frosting                                           11
      Banana Whip Frosting                                            12
      Browned Butter Frosting                                         12
      Raisin Filling                                                  12
  COOKIES                                                             12
      Molasses Oatmeal Cookies                                        12
      Old Fashioned Soft Molasses Cookies                             13
      Crisp Molasses Cookies                                          13
      Molasses Rum Balls                                              13
      Brandy Snaps                                                    14
      Molasses Sand Tarts                                             14
      Ginger Snaps                                                    14
      Molasses Peanut Butter Cookies                                  15
      Molasses Coconut Chews                                          15
      Molasses Date Bars                                              15
      Refrigerator Ginger Cookies                                     16
  PIES                                                                16
      Raisin Pie                                                      16
      Pumpkin Chiffon Pie                                             16
      Pumpkin Pie                                                     17
      Shoo-Fly Pie                                                    17
      Molasses Pecan Pie                                              17
      Old-Time Apple Pie                                              18
      Deep-Dish Apple Pie                                             18
      Molasses Prune Pie                                              19
      Coconut Chiffon Pie                                             19
  DESSERTS                                                            19
      Saucy Pudding                                                   19
      Molasses Cornstarch Pudding                                     20
      Indian Pudding                                                  20
      Molasses Ice Cream                                              20
      West Indies Ice Cream Sundae                                    20
      Steamed Colonial Custard                                        21
      Plum Pudding                                                    21
      Baked Apples                                                    21
      Apple Dessert with Streusel Crumbs                              22
      Broiled Bananas                                                 22
      Baked Pears                                                     22
  GINGERBREADS—BREADS                                                 23
      Grandma’s Favorite Gingerbread                                  24
      Pineapple Upside Down Gingerbread                               24
      French Toast                                                    24
      Whole-Wheat Griddle Cakes                                       25
      Whole-Wheat Waffles                                             25
      Molasses Fruit Bread                                            25
      Swedish Yeast Bread                                             26
      Refrigerator Whole-Wheat Rolls                                  26
      Steamed Brown Bread                                             27
      Sweet Bran Muffins                                              27
      Whole-Wheat Blueberry Muffins                                   27
  BEVERAGES—SPREADS—FRENCH DRESSING                                   28
      Molasses Milk Shake                                             28
      Hot Spiced Milk                                                 28
      Molasses Banana Milk Shake                                      28
      Always-Ready Molasses Spread                                    28
      Creamy French Dressing                                          28
  EASY-TO-MAKE RECIPES FOR YOUNG COOKS                                29
  CAKES                                                               29
      Molasses One-Egg Cake                                           29
      Broiled Coconut Topping                                         29
      Quick Gingerbread                                               30
  COOKIES                                                             30
      Molasses Chocolate Bit Cookies                                  30
  CANDIES                                                             30
      Molasses Lollipops                                              30
      Lads and Lasses Taffy                                           31
      Molasses Popcorn Balls                                          31
      Surprise Caramels                                               32
      Peanut Brittle                                                  32
      Spiced Nuts                                                     32
  DESSERTS                                             Inside Back Cover
      Applesauce Pudding                               Inside Back Cover
      Molasses Cooky Refrigerator Cake                 Inside Back Cover
      Taffy Ice Cream                                  Inside Back Cover




                        _Logically Molasses...._
                           MEATS • VEGETABLES


    [Illustration: Logically Molasses: MEATS, VEGETABLES]


GLAZED HAM

  6 to 8 lbs. cooked ham
  Whole cloves
  2 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ teaspoon dry mustard
  3 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES

Heat oven to 325° F. (moderately slow). Remove skin and part of fat from
a hot, cooked ham. Score fat in diamond shapes; stud with cloves. Place
on wire rack (cake cooler) in large, shallow pan. (If desired, line pan
with metal foil). Dribble 2 tablespoons molasses over entire surface of
ham. Mix remaining ingredients; pat uniformly over ham. Bake 40 minutes
or until ham is glossy and brown.


PANNED GLAZED HAM

Cook slices of ham on both sides in heavy skillet until almost brown.
Spread GRANDMA’S MOLASSES thinly over each side; continue cooking until
ham has browned and is nicely glazed.


PINEAPPLE UPSIDE DOWN LOAF

_Topping_

  1 tablespoon butter _or_ margarine
  2 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 tablespoon sugar
  3 slices pineapple
  3 maraschino cherries

_Ham Loaf_

  2½ cups (1 lb.) cooked, ground ham
  2 cups (1 lb.) uncooked, ground pork
  1 cup crushed corn flakes
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon pepper
  1 teaspoon dry mustard
  2 eggs, beaten
  ¼ cup milk

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Melt butter or margarine in 4x9x3-inch
loaf pan, measured across bottom. Stir in molasses and sugar; spread
uniformly over bottom of pan. Arrange pineapple and cherries over
molasses-butter mixture. Mix all ingredients for ham loaf in order
given. Spread mixture in pan over pineapple; press down. Bake 1 hour.
Turn out on hot platter with pineapple and cherries on top.

YIELD: 16 slices, ½ inch thick.


BARBECUE SAUCE

  3 tablespoons butter _or_ margarine
  ½ cup chopped onions
  6-oz. can tomato paste
  ¾ cup water
  3 tablespoons vinegar
  3 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce
  2 teaspoons salt
  2 teaspoons dry mustard
  ½ teaspoon pepper
  ¾ teaspoon chili powder
  ½ teaspoon garlic powder _or_ 1 garlic bud

Melt butter or margarine in saucepan. Add onions; cook until limp. Add
remaining ingredients; mix well. Pour over frankfurters, spareribs,
hamburgers, or meat balls that have been browned. Cook over low heat or
bake in oven until the sauce is of desired thickness and meat is tender.

YIELD: 1½ cups sauce.


BAKED LIMA BEANS

  2 cups dried Lima beans
  6 cups cold water
  4 teaspoons salt
  ¼ cup catsup
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 tablespoons chopped onion
  1 teaspoon dry mustard
  ¼ teaspoon pepper
  Frankfurters _or_ bacon strips

Wash beans. Add cold water; soak overnight. Add salt. Cover saucepan.
Cook in water in which beans were soaked until tender. Drain; save 2
cups bean liquid and mix with catsup, molasses, onion, mustard, and
pepper. Pour beans into a 2-quart bean pot. Add liquid mixture. Arrange
frankfurters or bacon strips over beans. Cover. Bake in moderately slow
oven (325° F.) 2 hours. Uncover. Bake 15 to 20 minutes to brown
frankfurters or bacon. YIELD: 8 to 10 servings.


BAKED BEANS (QUICK METHOD)

    [Illustration: BAKED BEANS]

  4 cups (2 lbs.) dried beans
  Cold water
  1 large onion
  4 teaspoons salt
  ½ cup catsup
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ½ teaspoon pepper
  2 teaspoons dry mustard
  ½ lb. salt pork

Wash beans. Cover generously with cold water; soak overnight. Add onion,
salt, and if necessary, additional water to cover beans; bring to
boiling point in covered saucepan. Remove onion. Simmer until beans are
tender. Drain; save 3 cups bean liquid (add additional water to make 3
cups, if necessary). Mix bean liquid with catsup, molasses, pepper, and
mustard. Pour beans, onion, and salt pork into bean pot. Add liquid
mixture. Cover. Bake in moderately slow oven (325° F.) 1¾ hours.
Uncover. Lift pork to top of beans; bake 20 to 25 minutes to brown pork.
YIELD: 16 servings.

_Old Fashioned Baked Beans_: Simmer only until beans are half done
(skins break). Bake in slow oven (300° F.) 6 to 8 hours.


BAKED CANNED BEANS

  2 cans baked beans
  2 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 tablespoon chopped onion
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon prepared mustard
  3 strips bacon

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Heat beans. Stir in molasses, onion,
salt, and mustard. Pour into baking pan. Arrange bacon over beans. Bake
until bacon is brown and crisp. YIELD: 5 to 6 servings.


BAKED ACORN SQUASH

    [Illustration: Cook]

  Acorn squash
  ¹/₁₆ teaspoon salt
  Dash of pepper
  ¹/₁₆ teaspoon cinnamon
  2 whole cloves
  2 teaspoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 teaspoon butter _or_ margarine

Heat oven to 400° F. (moderately hot). Wash squash; split in half,
lengthwise, and scrape out seeds. Put the remaining ingredients into
each half. Bake 45 minutes, in covered pan, containing 2 inches of hot
water. Uncover; bake 15 minutes or until squash is tender and has
browned.

_Steamed Acorn Squash_: Place squash in a large pan about 4 inches deep;
pour from 1 to 2 cups water around squash, and cover with metal foil.
Cover pan with a tight-fitting lid. Steam over medium heat 20 minutes or
until squash is tender.


GLAZED CARROTS AND ONIONS

  8 carrots
  8 onions
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  Dash of pepper
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 tablespoons butter _or_ margarine

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Cook carrots and onions until almost
tender in just enough salted water to be absorbed during cooking. Place
in casserole. Sprinkle with pepper. Dribble with molasses and dot with
butter or margarine. Bake, uncovered, 25 minutes (basting occasionally)
until vegetables have browned and are nicely glazed.

YIELD: 4 servings.

_Glazed Sweet Potatoes or Squash_: Replace carrots and onions with
cooked sweet potatoes or parboiled winter squash.


MASHED SWEET POTATO CASSEROLE

    [Illustration: Cook]

  3½ cups mashed sweet potatoes
  ⅓ to ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  3 tablespoons butter or margarine, melted
  ½ teaspoon grated lemon _or_ orange rind
  ½ teaspoon salt
  Marshmallows

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Combine sweet potatoes, molasses,
butter or margarine, lemon or orange rind, and salt. Add a little milk
if potatoes are too dry. Pour into casserole. Top with marshmallows.
Bake 30 minutes or until sweet potatoes are hot and marshmallows have
browned.

YIELD: 8 servings.




                        _Logically Molasses...._
                                 CAKES
                     TOPPINGS, FROSTINGS AND SAUCES
                                COOKIES
                                  PIES
                                DESSERTS


    [Illustration: Logically Molasses: CAKES, TOPPINGS, FROSTINGS AND
    SAUCES, COOKIES, PIES, DESSERTS]


PLANTATION CAKE

  2 cups sifted enriched flour
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon double-acting _or_ 1½ teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  1½ teaspoons cinnamon
  ½ cup shortening
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ teaspoon soda
  1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 eggs
  ⅔ cup milk

Heat oven to 375° F. (moderate). Sift together first four ingredients.
Cream together shortening, sugar, soda, and lemon rind. Add molasses.
Stir in ½ cup flour mixture. Beat in eggs. Add milk alternately with
remaining flour mixture (about ⅓ of each at a time). Beat ½ minute. Bake
25 minutes or until done in 2 well-greased, lightly floured, round,
8-inch, layer cake pans. Cool; frost as desired.

YIELD: 12 servings.


MARBLE CAKE

  2 cups sifted cake flour
  1 teaspoon salt
  2 teaspoons double-acting _or_ 3 teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  ½ cup shortening
  1 cup sugar
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  2 eggs
  ⅔ cup milk
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ¼ teaspoon cloves

Sift together first three ingredients. Cream together shortening, sugar,
and vanilla. Beat in eggs. Add milk alternately with flour mixture. Beat
½ minute. Place ⅓ of batter in a small bowl; stir in molasses and
spices. Pour light and dark batters alternately into a well-greased,
lightly floured, 8-inch, tube cake pan or into a 9x9x2-inch pan. Bake
tube cake 1 hour in moderately slow oven (325° F.); the 9x9x2-inch cake
45 minutes in moderate oven (350° F.). Frost as desired.

YIELD: 12 servings.


APPLESAUCE CAKE (one-bowl method)
(Have all ingredients at room temperature)

  2 cups sifted cake flour
  1 cup sugar
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon double-acting _or_ 1½ teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  ¾ teaspoon soda
  ¼ teaspoon cinnamon
  ¼ teaspoon nutmeg
  ½ cup shortening
  ⅓ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 cup unsweetened applesauce
  2 eggs

Heat oven to 375° F. (moderate). Sift first seven ingredients into a
mixing bowl. Add shortening, molasses, and applesauce. Mix until all
flour is dampened. Beat 2 minutes by hand or electric beater (low
speed). Add eggs. Beat 2 more minutes. Bake 25 minutes or until done in
2 well-greased, lightly floured, round, 8-inch, layer-cake pans. Cool;
frost with MOLASSES MOCHA FROSTING (page 11).

YIELD: 12 servings.


MOLASSES FEATHER CAKE (one-bowl method)
(Have all ingredients at room temperature)

  2¼ cups sifted cake flour
  ½ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon double-acting _or_ 1½ teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  ½ teaspoon soda
  1 teaspoon salt
  ½ cup shortening
  ¾ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 eggs
  1 teaspoon flavoring
  ½ cup milk

Heat oven to 375° F. (moderate). Sift first five ingredients into mixing
bowl. Add shortening, molasses, eggs, and flavoring. Mix until all flour
is dampened. Beat 2 minutes by hand or electric beater (low speed). Add
milk. Beat 2 more minutes. Bake 25 minutes or until done in 2
well-greased, lightly floured, round, 8-inch, layer cake pans. Cool;
frost as desired.

YIELD: 12 servings.

_Spiced Feather Cake_: Omit flavoring. Add 1 teaspoon cinnamon, ½
teaspoon nutmeg, and ¼ teaspoon cloves.


MOLASSES SPONGE CAKE

    [Illustration: MOLASSES SPONGE CAKE]

  1 cup sifted cake flour
  ½ teaspoon salt
  5 eggs, separated
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 tablespoon grated orange rind
  1½ teaspoons grated lemon rind
  2 teaspoons lemon juice

Heat oven to 325° F. (moderately slow). Sift together flour and salt.
Beat egg yolks with rotary or electric beater until thick and
lemon-colored. Gradually beat in sugar and molasses. Then, by the clock,
beat with rotary or electric beater (low speed) an additional 3 minutes.
Stir in orange rind, lemon rind and juice. Add flour mixture, ⅓ at a
time, mixing each addition until smooth. When all flour has been added,
beat until light and fluffy (about ½ minute). Beat egg whites until
stiff enough to stand in peaks, but not dry; fold (by hand) into batter.
Bake 45 minutes in an ungreased, 9-inch, tube cake pan. Turn cake pan
upside down on wire cooler. If cake has not dropped out of pan when
cold, loosen from sides with spatula.

YIELD: 12 servings.


DEVIL’S FOOD CAKE

  ⅔ cup shortening
  ⅔ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon soda
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  ⅔ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  3 squares bitter chocolate
  2 eggs
  ¾ cup sour milk
  1½ cups sifted enriched flour

Heat oven to 375° F. (moderate). Cream together first five ingredients.
Stir in molasses. Melt chocolate over hot water; add to
shortening-sugar, etc., mixture. Beat in eggs. Add sour milk alternately
with flour (about ⅓ of each at a time). Bake 25 minutes or until done in
2 well-greased, lightly floured, round, 8-inch, layer cake pans. Cool;
frost as desired.

YIELD: 12 servings.


OLD FASHIONED FRUIT CAKE
(heavy with fruit)

    [Illustration: OLD FASHIONED FRUIT CAKE]

  2½ lbs. (6¼ cups) raisins, cut in half
  ½ lb. (1¼ cups) candied cherries, sliced
  ½ lb. (1¼ cups) candied pineapple, sliced
  ½ lb. (2 cups) pecans, coarsely chopped
  ½ lb. (2 cups) blanched almonds, sliced
  ¾ lb. (2 cups) citron, thinly sliced
  ¼ cup sifted enriched flour
  use to tenderize fruit:
    1 cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
    ½ cup water

_Cake Batter:_

  2 cups sifted enriched flour
  ¼ teaspoon soda
  1½ teaspoons cinnamon
  1¼ teaspoons nutmeg
  1 teaspoon allspice
  ½ teaspoon cloves
  ½ sq. bitter chocolate, melted
  1 cup butter _or_ margarine
  6 eggs, unbeaten
  1¼ cups sugar
  ½ cup milk

_To Freshen and Tenderize Fruit_: Heat molasses and water to boiling
point. Gradually stir in fruit and nuts to coat each piece with syrup.
Slowly cook until all liquid is absorbed by fruit (about 5 minutes).
Stir constantly. Place fruit on large platters to completely cool. Stir
occasionally. Just before adding fruit to cake batter, mix fruit with
the ¼ cup flour.

_To Mix Cake_: Sift together flour, soda, and spices. Cream together
butter or margarine, sugar, and chocolate. Beat in 3 eggs. Stir in ½ cup
flour mixture; beat in remaining 3 eggs. Add remaining dry ingredients
alternately with milk. Stir in freshened fruit. Line bottoms and sides
of 2 greased, tube cake pans, (measuring 8 inches across bottom). Grease
paper well. Pour batter into pans. Bake 3 hours in very slow oven (275°
F.), keeping a large, flat pan of hot water on rack underneath cakes to
prevent them from baking too dry. Turn cakes out on wire cooler; remove
brown paper. Store in tightly closed tin box when cold.

YIELD: 8 pounds.




                     TOPPINGS • FROSTINGS • SAUCES


OLD ENGLISH HARD SAUCE

  ⅓ cup butter _or_ margarine
  2¼ cups sifted confectioners’ sugar
  1 tablespoon milk
  2 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 teaspoon flavoring _or_ ½ teaspoon grated orange rind

Cream butter or margarine until fluffy. Add confectioners’ sugar
alternately with milk and molasses. Add flavoring or orange rind.

YIELD: 1⅔ cups hard sauce.


MOLASSES WHIPPED CREAM

  ½ cup heavy cream
  1 tablespoon GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ½ teaspoon vanilla _or_ rum extract

Whip cream until almost stiff. Add molasses and flavoring. Beat until
stiff. Serve over hot gingerbread or spice cake.

YIELD: 6 servings.


MOLASSES BUTTER FROSTING

  ⅓ cup butter _or_ margarine
  3 cups sifted confectioners’ sugar
  1 egg white, unbeaten
  1 teaspoon vanilla, lemon, _or_ rum extract
  1 tablespoon GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 tablespoons milk

Cream butter or margarine until fluffy. Add 1 cup confectioners’ sugar,
egg white, and flavoring. Mix well. Add the remaining confectioners’
sugar alternately with molasses and milk. Mix thoroughly. Spread on tops
and sides of two 8-inch layers or on tops of two 9-inch layer cakes.

_Chocolate Frosting_: Add 3 tablespoons cocoa or 1 square bitter
chocolate, melted. Omit flavoring.

_Molasses Mocha Frosting_: Replace milk with 2 tablespoons cold,
double-strength coffee. Omit flavoring.

_Orange Frosting_: Omit flavoring and milk. Add 2 tablespoons orange
juice, 1 teaspoon grated orange rind, and ½ teaspoon grated lemon rind.


BOILED TAFFY FROSTING

  2 cups sugar
  ½ cup water
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¹/₁₆ teaspoon salt
  2 egg whites, beaten
  1 teaspoon flavoring

Thoroughly mix first four ingredients in a saucepan. Cook, without
stirring, to firm-ball stage (245° F.). Gradually beat hot syrup into
egg whites, beaten stiff but not dry. Continue beating until mixture
stands in high peaks. Beat in flavoring. (If frosting hardens before
spreading, beat in a few drops of hot water). Spread on tops and sides
of two 9-inch layers or on tops of 2 dozen cup cakes.


BANANA WHIP TOPPING

  1 egg white, unbeaten
  2 large ripe bananas
  2 tablespoons sugar
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  1 tablespoon GRANDMA’S MOLASSES

Place all ingredients in a small-bottom mixing bowl. Beat vigorously
with an electric or rotary beater until mixture is light and fluffy.
Serve at once over squares of hot gingerbread or cake.

YIELD: 8 to 10 servings.


BROWNED BUTTER FROSTING

  ⅓ cup butter _or_ margarine
  3 cups sifted confectioners’ sugar
  4 to 5 tablespoons light cream _or_ undiluted evaporated milk
  1 tablespoon GRANDMA’S MOLASSES

Brown butter or margarine in a saucepan. Add confectioners’ sugar
alternately with cream or evaporated milk and molasses. Spread over tops
and sides of two 8-inch layer cakes.


RAISIN FILLING

  1½ cups seedless raisins, chopped
  ¾ cup water
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 tablespoons cornstarch
  ½ teaspoon cinnamon
  ¼ teaspoon cloves
  1 tablespoon butter _or_ margarine
  ½ teaspoon grated lemon rind

Grind raisins in food chopper twice, using coarsest blade. Add water,
molasses, cornstarch, and spices. Mix well. Cook until mixture is thick
and clear, stirring constantly. Stir in butter or margarine and lemon
rind. Spread between two 9-inch layers or on tops of two 8-inch layer
cakes.




                                COOKIES


MOLASSES OATMEAL COOKIES

  1 cup sifted enriched flour
  ¼ teaspoon soda
  1 teaspoon salt
  1½ teaspoons double-acting _or_ 2 teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  1 teaspoon ginger
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ½ teaspoon nutmeg
  2 cups uncooked quick oats
  ½ cup shortening
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  1 teaspoon grated orange rind
  1 egg
  2 tablespoons milk
  ½ cup raisins
  ½ cup chopped nuts

Heat oven to 375° F. (moderate). Sift together first seven ingredients;
mix with quick oats. Cream shortening and sugar. Add molasses, vanilla,
and orange rind. Beat in egg. Add milk, raisins, and nuts. Stir in flour
mixture. Drop from teaspoon onto greased cooky sheets. Bake 12 minutes
or until cookies have lightly browned. Cool. Store in tightly closed tin
box.

YIELD: 4 dozen cookies.


OLD FASHIONED SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES

  4 cups sifted enriched flour
  1½ teaspoons salt
  2 teaspoons soda
  2 teaspoons cinnamon
  2 teaspoons ginger
  ½ teaspoon cloves
  1 cup shortening
  1½ cups GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¼ cup sugar
  1 egg

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Sift together first six ingredients.
Melt shortening in saucepan large enough for mixing cookies. Stir in
molasses and sugar. Cool. Beat in egg. Gradually add flour mixture. Beat
about 20 strokes. Shape into balls (golf-ball size). Place on greased
cooky sheets. Bake 15 minutes or until cookies have lightly browned.
Store in covered stone jar.

YIELD: 4 dozen cookies.


CRISP MOLASSES COOKIES

    [Illustration: CRISP MOLASSES COOKIES]

  3 cups sifted enriched flour
  ⅓ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon soda
  2 teaspoons ginger
  2 teaspoons cinnamon
  ¾ cup shortening
  1⅓ cups GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 tablespoon vinegar

Heat oven to 400° F. (moderately hot). Sift first six ingredients into a
mixing bowl. Cut in shortening with pastry blender or fingers to
resemble coarse meal. Heat molasses just to boiling point; add vinegar
and gradually stir into flour-shortening mixture. Chill dough until
stiff enough to roll (3 hours or overnight). Roll dough ¹/₁₆ inch thick
on lightly floured board. Shape with cooky cutters. Place on lightly
greased cooky sheets. Bake 6 to 7 minutes or until edges have lightly
browned. Cool. Store in tightly closed tin box.

YIELD: About 6 dozen cookies.

_Drop Cookies_: Drop unchilled dough, ½ teaspoonful at a time, onto
greased cooky sheets. Flatten ¹/₁₆ inch thick by stamping with glass
covered with a damp cloth.


MOLASSES RUM BALLS

  1 cup fine dry cooky _or_ cake crumbs
  1 cup sifted confectioners’ sugar
  2 tablespoons cocoa
  1 cup chopped nuts
  2 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¼ cup rum _or_ brandy

Mix first four ingredients. Add molasses and rum or brandy. Mix well.
Shape into balls (hickory-nut size) with hands dusted with
confectioners’ sugar. Roll balls in confectioners’ sugar. Chill until
ready to serve.

YIELD: About 30 balls.


BRANDY SNAPS

    [Illustration: Cook]

  1 cup sifted cake flour
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ⅔ cup sugar
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 teaspoons ginger
  ½ cup butter _or_ margarine

Heat oven to 300° F. (slow). Sift together first four ingredients. Heat
molasses _just_ to boiling point in saucepan large enough for mixing
cookies. Add butter or margarine; stir until melted. Stir in flour
mixture. Mix well. Drop ½ teaspoonful dough at a time onto greased cooky
sheets, 2 inches apart. Bake 15 to 18 minutes. Remove from oven. Cool 2
minutes. Carefully slip spatula underneath wafer to remove from pan.
Quickly roll over handle of wooden spoon. If wafers become brittle
before they are shaped, place in oven a minute to reheat. Then remove
from pan. Store in tightly closed tin box.

YIELD: 30 rolled wafers.

_Ice Cream Shells_: Drop 1 tablespoonful of dough at a time onto greased
cooky sheets, 3 inches apart. Bake 20 minutes. Shape over bottom of
custard cups. Just before serving, fill shells with ice cream.

YIELD: 18 ice cream shells.


MOLASSES SAND TARTS

  4 cups sifted enriched flour
  1⅔ cups sugar
  1⅓ cups butter _or_ margarine
  ⅔ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 whole egg plus 1 egg yolk
  ¼ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon cinnamon

Sift together flour and sugar. Cut in butter or margarine with fingers
or pastry blender to resemble coarse meal. Combine molasses and eggs;
stir into flour-butter mixture. Chill dough overnight or until ready to
bake. Roll dough ¹/₁₆ inch thick on board dusted with confectioners’
sugar. Shape with cooky cutters. Place on greased cooky sheets. Mix
sugar and cinnamon; sprinkle lightly over unbaked cookies. Bake in
moderately hot oven (400° F.) 6 to 7 minutes or until edges have lightly
browned. Cool. Store in tightly closed tin box.

YIELD: 14 dozen cookies.

_Drop Cookies_: Drop unchilled dough, ½ teaspoonful at a time, onto
greased cooky sheets. Flatten cookies to ¹/₁₆ inch thick with bottom of
glass covered with damp cloth.

    [Illustration: Cook]


GINGER SNAPS

  3 cups sifted enriched flour
  1½ teaspoons soda
  1 teaspoon salt
  3 teaspoons ginger
  ½ cup shortening
  1 cup sugar
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ½ cup plus 1 tablespoon water

Heat oven to 475° F. (very hot). Sift together first four ingredients.
Cream shortening and sugar. Add molasses. Add water alternately with
flour mixture. Put dough through pastry bag or drop ½ teaspoonful dough
at a time onto greased cooky sheets. Flatten cookies ⅛ inch thick by
stamping with bottom of glass covered with a damp cloth. Bake 6 minutes
or until cookies have lightly browned. Cool. Store in tightly closed tin
box.

YIELD: 8 to 9 dozen cookies.


MOLASSES PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES

  1 cup sifted enriched flour
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon soda
  1 teaspoon double-acting _or_ 1½ teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  ½ cup shortening
  ½ cup peanut butter
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  1 egg
  2 tablespoons milk

Heat oven to 375° F. (moderate). Sift together first four ingredients.
Cream shortening, peanut butter, and sugar. Add molasses and vanilla.
Beat in egg. Add milk. Stir in flour mixture. Drop onto greased cooky
sheets. Flatten cookies ⅛ inch thick by stamping with bottom of glass
covered with damp cloth. Bake 10 minutes or until cookies have lightly
browned. Cool. Store in tightly closed tin box.

YIELD: 3½ dozen cookies.


MOLASSES COCONUT CHEWS

  2 cups sifted cake flour
  ¼ teaspoon soda
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 cup sugar
  ⅓ cup butter _or_ margarine
  1 cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¼ teaspoon vanilla
  4 egg whites, unbeaten
  1¾ cups moist, shredded coconut

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Sift together first four ingredients.
Melt butter or margarine; add to flour mixture along with molasses,
vanilla, and egg whites. Mix well, but do not overmix. Stir in coconut.
Pour into two greased, 8x8x2-inch pans, lined with waxed paper, greased
and lightly floured. Bake 35 minutes or until done. Remove from pan onto
wire coolers; remove paper. When cold, cut each cake into 24 bars. Store
in tightly closed tin box. MOLASSES COCONUT CHEWS improve with age if
air is excluded when stored. YIELD: 48 bars.


MOLASSES DATE BARS

  1 cup sifted enriched flour
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅓ teaspoon soda
  1 egg, beaten
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¼ cup shortening, melted
  ½ teaspoon vanilla
  ⅔ cup chopped nuts
  7-oz. pkg. pitted dates, chopped fine

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Sift together first three ingredients.
Combine egg, sugar, molasses, shortening, and vanilla. Stir in flour
mixture, nuts, and dates. Pour into a 9x9x2-inch pan, lined with waxed
paper, greased and lightly floured. Bake 40 minutes or until done. Turn
out onto wire cooler; remove paper. When cold, cut into 32 bars. Roll in
confectioners’ sugar, if desired. YIELD: 32 bars.


REFRIGERATOR GINGER COOKIES

  2½ cups sifted enriched flour
  1 teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon soda
  1 teaspoon ginger
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ½ cup shortening
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ½ cup sugar
  1 egg
  ¾ cup chopped nuts (optional)

Sift together first five ingredients. Melt shortening in a saucepan
large enough for mixing cookies. Stir in molasses and sugar. Beat in
egg. Add nuts. Gradually add flour mixture. Form dough into 2 rolls, 2
inches in diameter. Wrap in waxed paper. Chill overnight or until ready
to bake. Slice ⅛ inch thick. Bake on greased cooky sheets 10 minutes or
until cookies have lightly browned in moderate oven (375° F.). Cool.
Store in a tightly closed tin box.

YIELD: 5 dozen cookies.

_Raisin Cookies_: Replace nuts with chopped raisins.




                                  PIES


RAISIN PIE

  2½ cups (15-oz. box) seedless raisins
  2¾ cups water
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon cloves
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  3 tablespoons cornstarch
  3 tablespoons cold water
  1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  Pastry for 2-crust, 9-inch pie

Heat oven to 425° F. (hot). Wash raisins. Add water, molasses, salt, and
spices. Mix cornstarch and water; add to raisin mixture and cook until
thick. Add lemon rind and juice. Cool. Pour into a 9-inch pie pan lined
with unbaked pastry. Cover with remaining pastry rolled ⅛ inch thick;
trim, seal, and flute edge. Cut a gash in top crust to allow for escape
of steam. Bake 40 minutes or until pastry has browned.

YIELD: 6 servings.


PUMPKIN CHIFFON PIE

  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  2 eggs, separated
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon ginger
  ¾ teaspoon nutmeg
  ¾ teaspoon cinnamon
  1 cup mashed pumpkin
  ½ cup milk
  ½ cup sugar
  9-inch, cold, baked pie shell

Soften gelatin in cold water. Mix egg yolks, molasses, salt, spices, and
pumpkin. Stir in milk. Cook over hot water until thick, stirring
constantly. Remove from heat; add softened gelatin. Chill over ice water
until mixture begins to congeal, stirring frequently. Gradually beat
sugar into beaten egg whites; fold into pumpkin-gelatin mixture. Pour
into a cold, baked, 9-inch pie shell. Chill until firm. Garnish with
whipped cream just before serving.

YIELD: 6 servings.

_Sweet Potato or Squash Chiffon Pie_: Replace pumpkin with mashed sweet
potatoes _or_ squash.


PUMPKIN PIE

  ⅔ cup sugar
  1 tablespoon flour
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon ginger
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ⅛ teaspoon cloves
  ⅓ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 cups mashed pumpkin _or_ squash
  3 eggs
  1 cup undiluted evaporated milk _or_ light cream
  9-inch, unbaked pie crust

Heat oven to 400° F. (moderately hot). Mix first six ingredients. Add
molasses, pumpkin or squash, and eggs. Mix well. Stir in milk or cream.
Pour into a 9-inch pie pan lined with unbaked pastry. Bake 40 minutes or
until knife inserted in center of filling comes out clean.

YIELD: 6 servings.

_Sweet Potato Pie_: Reduce sugar to ½ cup; replace pumpkin _or_ squash
with mashed sweet potatoes.


SHOO-FLY PIE

    [Illustration: SHOO-FLY PIE]

  1¼ cups sifted enriched flour
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ teaspoon nutmeg
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ⅓ cup butter _or_ margarine
  ¾ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¾ cup cold water
  ½ teaspoon soda
  9-inch, unbaked pie crust

Heat oven to 450° F. (hot). Sift together first four ingredients. Cut
butter or margarine into flour mixture with fingers or pastry blender to
resemble coarse crumbs. Mix molasses, water, and soda; pour into a
9-inch pie pan lined with unbaked pastry. Sprinkle crumbs over liquid.
Bake 15 minutes in hot oven (450° F.); reduce heat to moderate (350°
F.), and bake 35 to 40 minutes or until filling is firm.

YIELD: 6 servings.


MOLASSES PECAN PIE

  3 eggs, beaten
  ¾ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¾ cup white corn syrup
  2 tablespoons butter _or_ margarine, melted
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  1 cup chopped pecans
  1 tablespoon flour
  8-inch, unbaked pie crust

Heat oven to 375° F. (moderate). Combine first six ingredients. Mix
pecans with flour; add to egg-molasses, etc., mixture. Pour into an
8-inch pie pan lined with unbaked pastry. Bake 40 minutes or until
filling is firm.

YIELD: 6 servings.

_Molasses Peanut Pie_: Replace pecans with roasted peanut halves.


OLD-TIME APPLE PIE

  5 cups sliced, tart, cooking apples (4 to 5 large apples)
  ⅔ cup sugar
  4 to 5 tablespoons enriched flour[1]
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon nutmeg
  ½ teaspoon grated lemon rind[2]
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 tablespoon lemon juice[2]
  2 tablespoons butter _or_ margarine
  Pastry for 2-crust, 9-inch pie

Heat oven to 450° F. (hot). Spread apples in 9-inch pie pan lined with
unbaked pastry. Sprinkle apples with mixture of sugar, flour, salt,
nutmeg, and lemon rind. Dribble molasses and lemon juice over apples;
dot with butter. Cover with remaining pastry rolled ⅛ inch thick; trim,
seal, and flute edge. Cut a gash in top crust to allow for escape of
steam. Bake 10 minutes in hot oven (450° F.); reduce heat to moderate
(350° F.) and bake 30 to 40 minutes or until apples are tender.

YIELD: 6 servings.


[1]If apples are not juicy, omit flour. However, if apples are very
    juicy, use 5 tablespoons flour.

[2]If apples are very tart, omit both lemon rind and juice.


DEEP-DISH APPLE PIE

    [Illustration: DEEP-DISH APPLE PIE]

  6 large, tart, cooking apples, sliced into eighths (6 cups)
  ½ cup water
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon nutmeg
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 tablespoons butter _or_ margarine
  Pastry for one-crust, 9-inch pie

Heat oven to 425° F. (hot). Parboil apples in the water; spread in a
6x10x2-inch casserole. Sprinkle apples with mixture of sugar, salt, and
nutmeg. Dribble molasses over apples; dot with butter. Cover with
pastry, rolled into a rectangular shape, ⅛ inch thick. Trim, seal, and
flute edge. Cut three gashes in pastry to allow for escape of steam.
Bake 30 minutes or until apples are tender and crust has browned.

YIELD: 6 to 8 servings.


MOLASSES PRUNE PIE

  2 cups cooked, pitted prunes
  ¼ cup prune juice
  ¾ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  3 egg yolks, beaten
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
  ¼ cup butter _or_ margarine, melted
  ¹/₁₆ teaspoon cloves
  Pastry for 2-crust, 9-inch pie

Heat oven to 450° F. (hot). Chop prunes. Add prune juice, molasses, egg
yolks, lemon juice and rind, butter or margarine, and cloves. Pour into
a 9-inch pie pan lined with unbaked pastry. Roll remaining pastry ⅛-inch
thick. Cut into strips, ½ inch wide; twist, and place over filling in
criss-cross pattern. Seal ends to bottom crust; trim and flute edge.
Bake 10 minutes in hot oven (450° F.); reduce heat to moderate (350° F.)
and bake 30 minutes or until pastry has browned.

YIELD: 6 servings.


COCONUT CHIFFON PIE

  1 envelope unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  2 eggs, separated
  ¼ cup sugar
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  1¾ cups milk _or_ light cream
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¼ cup sugar
  ½ cup moist, shredded coconut
  1 teaspoon vanilla _or_ 2 teaspoons rum extract
  9-inch, cold baked pie shell

Soften gelatin in cold water. Mix egg yolks, ¼ cup sugar, salt, and milk
or cream in top of double boiler; cook over hot water (do not allow
water to boil) until custard coats the spoon. Stir constantly. Remove
from heat. Add softened gelatin. Stir in molasses. Chill over ice water
until mixture begins to congeal (thick as fresh egg whites). Gradually
beat the remaining ¼ cup sugar in beaten egg whites; fold into
custard-gelatin mixture. Fold in coconut and flavoring. Pour into a cold
baked pie crust. Chill until firm. Garnish with whipped cream and
coconut just before serving.

YIELD: 6 servings.

_Coffee Chiffon Pie_: Replace milk with double-strength coffee.




                                DESSERTS


SAUCY PUDDING

  1 cup sifted enriched flour
  1 teaspoon soda
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon ginger
  ¾ teaspoon cinnamon
  ¼ cup sugar
  2 tablespoons shortening
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 egg
  ¼ cup hot water
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1½ cups cold water
  ½ teaspoon vanilla

Heat oven to 375° F. (moderate). Sift together first five ingredients.
Cream sugar, shortening, and molasses. Beat in egg. Add hot water
alternately with flour mixture. Pour batter into a greased 8x8x2-inch
pan. Mix remaining ingredients and pour over unbaked pudding. Bake 35
minutes or until done. Serve warm, in squares, with sauce spooned over
each serving.

YIELD: 8 servings.


MOLASSES CORNSTARCH PUDDING

  ⅓ cup cornstarch
  ½ cup cold milk
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 cups hot milk
  2 eggs, beaten
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 tablespoons butter _or_ margarine
  2 teaspoons vanilla

Mix first three ingredients in top of double boiler. Add hot milk. Cook
over _boiling_ water until mixture is thick, clear, and smooth, stirring
constantly. Mix eggs and molasses; slowly add to hot mixture. Cook over
_hot_ water until pudding is thick, stirring constantly. Stir in butter
or margarine and vanilla. Pour into individual dessert dishes. Chill.

YIELD: 6 servings.


INDIAN PUDDING

  ¼ cup corn meal
  2 cups hot milk
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon soda
  3 tablespoons sugar
  1 tablespoon butter _or_ margarine
  ⅓ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 cup cold milk

Heat oven to 275° F. (slow). Mix corn meal and hot milk. Cook until
thick (about 15 minutes), stirring constantly. Remove from heat. Stir in
remaining ingredients. Pour mixture into a one-quart casserole. Bake 2
hours. Serve warm with ice cream, whipped cream, or plain.

YIELD: 6 to 8 servings.

_Spiced Indian Pudding_: Add ½ teaspoon each, ginger and cinnamon.


MOLASSES ICE CREAM

  1 rennet tablet
  1 tablespoon cold water
  2 cups light cream
  ¼ cup sugar
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Turn refrigerator control to coldest point. Set out ice tray. Crush
rennet tablet; dissolve in cold water. Mix cream, sugar, and molasses;
warm over low heat to 110° F. (lukewarm), stirring constantly. Add
vanilla and dissolved rennet tablet. Pour, at once, into ice tray. _Do
not move until set_ (about 10 minutes). Freeze in ice cube unit of
refrigerator until almost stiff. Turn into a bowl. Beat until smooth.
Return to ice tray. Freeze until stiff (3 to 4 hours).

YIELD: 6 servings.

_Molasses Coffee Ice Cream_: Add ¼ cup cold, double-strength coffee.


WEST INDIES ICE CREAM SUNDAE

Pour 1 tablespoon GRANDMA’S MOLASSES over each serving of vanilla ice
cream. Top with ginger snap or molasses cooky crumbs.


STEAMED COLONIAL CUSTARD

  3 eggs
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  2 cups scalded milk

Beat eggs slightly; add molasses, salt, and vanilla. Stir in hot milk.
Pour mixture into 6 custard cups; cover each with metal foil. Place cups
on rack or jar lids in pan of hot water, coming half-way to top of cups.
Cover pan tightly. Steam over _low heat_ until knife inserted in center
comes out clean (about 15 minutes). _If water around cups is allowed to
boil, custards will curdle._ If desired, place a marshmallow in each cup
before filling with mixture.

YIELD: 6 servings.

_Baked Colonial Custard_: Bake custards in shallow pan of hot water in
slow oven (300° F.) until knife inserted in center comes out clean (40
to 50 minutes).


PLUM PUDDING

    [Illustration: PLUM PUDDING]

  2 cups sifted enriched flour
  ¼ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon soda
  1½ teaspoons cinnamon
  ½ teaspoon cloves
  2 eggs, beaten
  ¾ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¼ cup shortening, melted
  2 cups chopped, pitted dates
  2 cups chopped raisins
  1 cup sliced citron
  ¼ cup milk or cider

Sift together first six ingredients. Add eggs, molasses, and shortening.
Mix well. Add fruit; mix well to coat each piece with the mixture. Stir
in milk or cider. Pour batter into 2 one-quart molds, filling each ⅔
full. Cover with tight-fitting lids or metal foil. Steam 3 hours. Steam
individual molds (custard cups or gelatin molds) 1½ hours. Serve hot
with hard sauce, foamy sauce, or whipped cream.

YIELD: 18 to 20 servings.


BAKED APPLES

  8 tart cooking apples
  ½ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  Hot water

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Peel 1-inch strip around stem of apple;
core, being careful not to cut through the blossom end. Place in baking
pan about 3 inches deep. Mix sugar, cinnamon, and molasses; pack in
center of apples. Pour hot water (about ¼ inch deep) in pan around
apples. Cover. Bake 30 minutes. Uncover. Bake 20 minutes or until apples
are tender, basting occasionally.

YIELD: 8 servings.


APPLE DESSERT WITH STREUSEL CRUMBS

    [Illustration: Cook]

  2 tablespoons sugar
  ¼ teaspoon nutmeg
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon grated lemon rind
  6 large tart cooking apples
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  ¼ cup butter _or_ margarine
  ⅓ cup sugar
  2 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 cup sifted enriched flour

Heat oven to 375° F. (moderate). Mix first four ingredients. Slice
apples ⅛ inch thick. Arrange in alternate layers with sugar mixture in a
6x10x2-inch casserole. Dribble molasses and lemon juice over apples.
Cream butter or margarine, sugar, and molasses; add flour. Mix to a
crumb consistency; sprinkle over apples. Bake 50 minutes or until apples
are tender and crumbs are brown.

YIELD: 6 to 8 servings.

_Pear Dessert with Streusel Crumbs:_ Replace apples with pears.


BROILED BANANAS

  4 firm bananas
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  2 tablespoons butter _or_ margarine

Cut peeled bananas in half, lengthwise. Arrange in baking dish. Mix
molasses and lemon juice; pour over bananas. Dot with butter. Place
under broiler heat (350° F.) 10 to 12 minutes, basting occasionally.

YIELD: 4 servings as a dessert or 8 servings as a meat accompaniment.


BAKED PEARS

    [Illustration: Cook]

  6 large, fresh, cooking pears
  ¾ cup sugar
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 cups water
  6 whole cloves
  2 sticks cinnamon

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Wash unpeeled pears. Cut a thin slice
from bottom of each pear; stand upright in baking pan. Mix remaining
ingredients in saucepan; cook until sugar is dissolved and pour over
pears. Cover. Bake 35 minutes. Uncover. Bake 15 minutes or until pears
are tender.

YIELD: 6 servings.




                        _Logically Molasses...._
                         GINGERBREADS • BREADS


    [Illustration: Logically Molasses: GINGERBREADS, BREADS]


GRANDMA’S FAVORITE GINGERBREAD

  2½ cups sifted enriched flour
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon double-acting _or_ 1½ teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  1 teaspoon ginger
  2 teaspoons cinnamon
  ½ teaspoon cloves
  ½ cup shortening
  ½ cup sugar
  ¾ teaspoon soda
  1 cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 eggs
  1 cup hot water

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Sift together first six ingredients.
Cream shortening, sugar, and soda. Add molasses. Stir in ½ cup flour
mixture. Beat in eggs. Add hot water alternately with remaining flour
mixture (about ⅓ of each at a time). Beat ½ minute. Bake 45 minutes or
until done in a well-greased, lightly floured, 9x9x2-inch pan.

YIELD: 9 to 12 servings.


PINEAPPLE UPSIDE DOWN GINGERBREAD

_Topping_

  1 tablespoon butter _or_ margarine
  ⅓ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¼ cup sugar
  6 slices pineapple
  6 maraschino cherries

_Cake Batter_

  1½ cups sifted enriched flour
  ¾ teaspoon salt
  ¾ teaspoon double-acting _or_ 1¼ teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  ½ teaspoon each, ginger and cinnamon
  ¼ teaspoon cloves
  ⅓ cup shortening
  ⅓ cup sugar
  ½ teaspoon soda
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 egg
  ½ cup sour milk

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Melt butter or margarine in 8×8×2-inch
pan. Stir in molasses and sugar; heat just to boiling point. Over this,
arrange pineapple and cherries; set aside. _TO MIX CAKE_: Sift together
first six ingredients. Cream shortening, sugar, and soda. Add molasses.
Stir in ¼ cup flour mixture. Beat in egg. Add sour milk alternately with
remaining flour mixture (about ⅓ of each at a time). Beat ½ minute. Pour
batter in pan over pineapple and cherries; spread to sides and corners.
Bake 1 hour or until done. Cool 15 to 20 minutes before removing from
pan.

YIELD: 9 servings.

_Pear Upside Down Gingerbread_: Replace pineapple with pear halves.


FRENCH TOAST

  1 egg, beaten
  ½ cup milk
  2 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  Dash of salt
  4 to 5 slices bread

Mix first four ingredients. Dip each slice of bread into mixture. Fry
until golden brown in a little hot fat. Serve with butter or margarine
and GRANDMA’S MOLASSES.

YIELD: 4 to 5 slices of toast.


WHOLE-WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES

  1 cup sifted enriched flour
  1 teaspoon salt
  3 teaspoons double-acting _or_ 4 teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  1 cup unsifted whole-wheat flour
  2 eggs, separated
  3 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 cups milk
  2 tablespoons shortening, melted

Sift together first three ingredients; mix with whole-wheat flour.
Combine egg yolks, molasses, milk, and shortening; stir into flour
mixture. Beat egg whites stiff, but not dry; fold into batter. Bake a
spoonful at a time on a lightly greased, hot griddle.

YIELD: 12 griddle cakes.

_Oatmeal Griddle Cakes_: Replace whole-wheat flour with 1 cup quick
oats.


WHOLE-WHEAT WAFFLES

    [Illustration: WAFFLES]

  1 cup sifted enriched flour
  1 teaspoon salt
  3 teaspoons double-acting _or_ 4 teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  1 cup unsifted whole-wheat flour
  3 eggs, separated
  3 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1½ cups milk
  ¼ cup shortening, melted

Sift together first three ingredients; mix with whole-wheat flour.
Combine egg yolks, molasses, milk, and shortening; stir into flour
mixture. Beat egg whites stiff, but not dry; fold into batter. Bake in
hot waffle irons.

YIELD: 8 waffles.


MOLASSES FRUIT BREAD

  2 cups sifted enriched flour
  1 teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon soda
  ¾ teaspoon double-acting _or_ 1¼ teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  1 egg, beaten
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ⅓ cup sugar
  ¼ cup shortening, melted
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  1½ teaspoons grated lemon rind
  ⅓ cup chopped figs or dates
  ¼ cup sliced citron
  ½ cup chopped nuts
  ⅔ cup milk

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Sift together first four ingredients.
Add egg, molasses, sugar, shortening, lemon juice and rind, fruit, and
nuts. Mix well. Add flour mixture alternately with milk. Mix only until
ingredients are blended. Bake one hour or until done in well-greased,
lightly floured, 5x9x3-inch bread pan.

YIELD: 1 loaf.


SWEDISH YEAST BREAD

    [Illustration: Cook]

  2 packages granulated yeast
  ¼ cup lukewarm water
  2 cups sour milk
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 cups sifted enriched flour
  4 cups unsifted rye _or_ whole-wheat flour
  3 teaspoons salt
  4 teaspoons caraway seed (optional)

Soften yeast in lukewarm water. Heat sour milk; cool to lukewarm, and
add to yeast. Add molasses. Mix enriched flour, rye or whole-wheat
flour, salt, and caraway seed if used. Gradually add to yeast-milk
mixture. Mix well. Turn dough onto floured board. Cover and let rest 10
minutes. Knead until smooth and elastic (8 to 10 minutes). Place dough
in a greased bowl. Coat all sides of dough with grease by wiping it
against sides of bowl. Cover and let rise in a warm place (80 to 85° F.)
until double in size. Knead dough on floured board a few seconds; cover,
and let rest 10 minutes. Shape into 2 loaves. Place in greased
5x10x3-inch bread pans. Let rise in warm place until double in size.
Bake in hot oven (425° F.) 30 minutes or until crust is well browned and
shrinks from sides of pan.

YIELD: 2 loaves.


REFRIGERATOR WHOLE-WHEAT ROLLS

    [Illustration: Cook]

  2 packages granulated yeast
  ¼ cup lukewarm water
  1¾ cups milk
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 eggs
  3¾ cups sifted enriched flour
  3¾ cups unsifted whole-wheat flour
  3 teaspoons salt
  ½ cup shortening, melted

Soften yeast in lukewarm water. Scald milk; cool to lukewarm, and add
yeast. Stir in molasses and eggs. Mix enriched flour, whole-wheat flour,
and salt; add 4 cups to yeast-molasses, etc., mixture. Beat batter until
smooth and elastic (falls in sheets from spoon). Add shortening; beat
thoroughly. Add remaining flour; work it in well. Turn dough onto bread
board; cover and let rest 10 minutes. Knead until smooth and elastic
(about 10 minutes). Place in greased bowl. Coat all sides of dough with
grease by wiping it against sides of bowl. This prevents a crust from
forming over dough. Store in refrigerator overnight or 3 to 4 days.
Knead a few seconds; shape into rolls; place 1 inch apart on greased
pans. Brush tops with melted butter or margarine. Let rise in warm place
(80 to 85° F.) until double in size. Bake in moderately hot oven (400°
F.) 12 to 15 minutes.

YIELD: 5 to 6 dozen rolls.

_Poppy Seed Rolls_: Brush tops of rolls before they rise with frothy egg
whites; sprinkle with poppy seed.


STEAMED BROWN BREAD

  1 cup sifted enriched flour
  2 teaspoons soda
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 cup quick oats
  2 cups corn meal
  1 cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 cups sour milk
  1 cup raisins

Sift together first three ingredients. Add quick oats and corn meal
(save ¼ cup in which to coat raisins). Stir in molasses and sour milk.
Mix raisins with the ¼ cup dry mixture; add to batter. Mix well. Pour
into 4 greased No. 2 cans, filling each ¾ full. Cover with metal foil or
2 layers of brown paper tied in place with a strong cord. Steam 2 hours,
counting from the time water begins to boil.

YIELD: 4 loaves.


SWEET BRAN MUFFINS

  2½ cups sifted enriched flour
  2 teaspoons double-acting _or_ 3 teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  ½ teaspoon soda
  1½ teaspoons salt
  1½ cups bran
  1 egg, beaten
  1 cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¾ cup milk
  ¼ cup shortening, melted

Heat oven to 400° F. (moderately hot). Sift together first four
ingredients. Add bran. Mix egg, molasses, milk, and shortening; add to
flour-bran mixture. Stir only until blended. Fill well-greased muffin
pans ¾ full. Bake 20 minutes or until done.

YIELD: 16 large or 24 small muffins.


WHOLE-WHEAT BLUEBERRY MUFFINS

  1 cup sifted enriched flour
  ¾ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon soda
  2 teaspoons double-acting _or_ 3 teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  ½ teaspoon cinnamon
  ¾ cup unsifted whole-wheat flour
  ½ cup shortening
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 egg
  ¾ cup milk
  1 cup blueberries

Heat oven to 375° F. (moderate). Sift together first five ingredients;
mix with whole-wheat flour. Cream shortening and molasses. Beat in egg.
Add flour mixture alternately with milk. Stir in blueberries. Fill
well-greased muffin pans ¾ full. Bake 18 minutes or until done.

YIELD: 24 small muffins.




                        _Logically Molasses...._
                 BEVERAGES • SPREADS • FRENCH DRESSING


MOLASSES MILK SHAKE

Stir 1 tablespoon GRANDMA’S MOLASSES into 1 cup cold milk. Serve at
once.


HOT SPICED MILK

  1 tablespoon GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 cup milk
  Dash of allspice and cinnamon
  Nutmeg

Combine first four ingredients in saucepan. Heat thoroughly and pour
into cup. Dust with nutmeg. Serve at once.


MOLASSES BANANA MILK SHAKE

  1 fully ripened banana
  ¾ cup of milk
  1 to 2 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  Dash of salt

Mash banana until creamy and smooth. Add remaining ingredients. Mix
well. Serve at once.


ALWAYS-READY MOLASSES SPREAD

  1 cup butter _or_ margarine
  1 cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 egg yolk

Cream butter or margarine until soft. Add molasses and egg yolk; mix
until blended. Serve over pancakes, waffles, or slices of bread (heat
under broiler if desired). Store in covered jar in refrigerator. Stir
mixture thoroughly just before spreading.

YIELD: 2 cups spread.


CREAMY FRENCH DRESSING

    [Illustration: FRENCH DRESSING]

  1 teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon paprika
  ½ teaspoon dry mustard
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  2 teaspoons grated onion
  1 clove garlic
  2 cups salad oil
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¼ cup catsup
  ¾ cup vinegar
  1 small _or_ ½ large egg white

Combine first seven ingredients; let stand one hour. Add remaining
ingredients and beat vigorously with rotary egg beater.

YIELD: 3 cups salad dressing.

_Plain French Dressing_: Omit egg white.




                 EASY-TO-MAKE RECIPES _for_ YOUNG COOKS




                                 CAKES


MOLASSES ONE-EGG CAKE

  1½ cups sifted enriched flour
  ¾ teaspoon salt
  ¾ teaspoon double-acting _or_ 1¼ teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  ⅓ cup shortening
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ teaspoon soda
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ½ teaspoon allspice
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 egg, unbeaten
  ⅔ cup sour milk

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Sift together first three ingredients.
Cream shortening, sugar, soda, and spices. Add molasses. Stir in ¼ cup
flour mixture. Beat in egg. Add sour milk alternately with remaining
flour mixture. Beat ½ minute. Bake 40 minutes or until done in a
well-greased, lightly floured, 8x8x2-inch pan. Cool. Frost as desired.

YIELD: 9 servings.

_Molasses-Raisin Cake_: Stir ¾ cup chopped raisins into mixture just
before adding egg.


BROILED COCONUT TOPPING

    [Illustration: Cake with topping]

  3 tablespoons butter _or_ margarine
  1 tablespoon GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¼ cup sugar
  2 tablespoons evaporated milk _or_ light cream
  ½ cup shredded coconut

Melt butter or margarine in saucepan. Add molasses, sugar, milk or
cream, and coconut. Mix well. Spread over hot cake. Place under broiler
until topping is bubbly and brown, watching closely to prevent burning.

YIELD: Topping for 8 or 9-inch square cake.


QUICK GINGERBREAD

  2 cups sifted enriched flour
  ⅓ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon soda
  1 teaspoon double-acting _or_ 1½ teaspoons cream of tartar baking
              powder
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  1½ teaspoons ginger
  ½ teaspoon cloves
  ½ cup shortening, melted
  1 cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 egg
  ½ cup sour milk
  ¼ cup hot water

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Sift together first eight ingredients.
Stir in melted shortening, molasses, egg, and sour milk. Beat in hot
water. Bake 45 minutes or until done in a well-greased, lightly floured,
9x9x2-inch pan.

YIELD: 9 to 12 servings.




                                COOKIES


MOLASSES CHOCOLATE BIT COOKIES

    [Illustration: Cookies]

  1¼ cups sifted enriched flour
  ½ teaspoon soda
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon cinnamon
  ½ cup shortening
  ¼ cup sugar
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ½ teaspoon vanilla
  ½ cup chopped nuts
  1 package chocolate bits

Heat oven to 350° F. (moderate). Sift together first four ingredients.
Cream shortening, sugar, and molasses. Beat in egg and vanilla.
Gradually stir in flour mixture. Add nuts and chocolate bits. Drop from
teaspoon onto lightly greased cooky sheets. Bake 10 minutes. Cool. Store
in tightly closed tin box.

YIELD: 4 dozen cookies.




                                CANDIES


MOLASSES LOLLIPOPS

  1 cup sugar
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  3 tablespoons butter _or_ margarine
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ cup water

Combine all ingredients in a 2-quart saucepan. Stir until sugar is
dissolved. Cook slowly to hard-crack stage (290° F.) or until syrup,
when dropped in cold water, forms a hard, stiff ball. Drop from
tablespoon onto end of wooden skewers arranged on buttered pan. Remove
from pan when cold.

YIELD: About 20 lollipops.


LADS AND LASSES TAFFY

    [Illustration: Taffy]

  1 cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 cup sugar
  1 tablespoon butter _or_ margarine

Combine all ingredients in a 2-quart saucepan. Stir until sugar is
dissolved. Cook over medium heat until syrup, when dropped in very cold
water, separates into threads which are hard but not brittle (270° F.).
Stir constantly. Pour onto greased cooky pan or platter. As edges cool,
fold toward center or they will harden before center is ready to pull.
(DO NOT DISTURB THAT PART OF TAFFY WHICH HAS NOT COOLED OR CANDY WILL
STICK TO PAN). Fold into ball when candy is cool enough to handle. Pull
with lightly buttered fingers until candy is light in color. Stretch
into a long rope, ½ inch wide. Cut into 1-inch pieces. Wrap each piece
of taffy in waxed paper.

YIELD: 1¼ lbs.


MOLASSES POPCORN BALLS

    [Illustration: POPCORN BALLS]

  1½ cups GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¾ cup sugar
  1 tablespoon butter _or_ margarine
  4 quarts popped corn

Mix first three ingredients in a 2-quart saucepan. Stir to dissolve
sugar. Cook over medium heat until syrup, when dropped in very cold
water, separates into threads which are hard but not brittle (270° F.).
Stir constantly. Pour syrup over popped corn, stirring to coat each
kernel with syrup. Shape into balls with lightly buttered hands when
cool enough to handle. Wrap each ball in waxed paper.

YIELD: 12 to 16 popcorn balls.

_Cracker Jack_: Add 2 cups roasted peanuts to popcorn before adding
syrup.

_Puff Balls_: Replace popcorn with 1 large box rice krispies, puffed
wheat, or puffed rice.


SURPRISE CARAMELS

    [Illustration: Cook]

  1 cup sugar
  ¾ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  ⅓ cup butter
  ½ cup light cream
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  Blanched, salted almonds

Mix first five ingredients in a saucepan. Stir to dissolve sugar. Cook
over medium heat to 250° F. in winter or 255° F. in summer, or until
syrup, when dropped in very cold water, forms a firm ball. Remove from
heat. Add vanilla. Pour into a buttered cooky pan. Cool until candy can
be handled. Cut into 1-inch squares. Place a whole almond in center of
each square. Roll into balls between palms of hands, keeping almond in
center. Wrap each piece in waxed paper.

YIELD: 1¼ pounds.


PEANUT BRITTLE

  2 tablespoons butter
  1 cup sugar
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¾ teaspoon soda
  2 cups roasted peanuts

Melt butter in a saucepan. Add sugar and molasses. Mix well. Cook over
medium heat, stirring frequently, to 300° F. or until syrup, when
dropped in very cold water, becomes brittle. Remove from heat. Stir in
soda. Quickly add peanuts. Pour into 2 large, greased cooky pans. Lift
edges and stretch candy as thin as possible when cool enough to handle.
Break into pieces. Store in tightly closed jar or tin box.

YIELD: 1¼ pounds.


SPICED NUTS

    [Illustration: Cook]

  1½ cups sugar
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  ¼ cup water
  1 tablespoon butter
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ½ teaspoon ginger
  ½ teaspoon allspice
  ⅛ teaspoon cloves
  ¾ pound pecan _or_ walnut meats

Mix first four ingredients in a saucepan. Stir to dissolve sugar. Cook
over medium heat to 245° F. or until syrup, when dropped in cold water,
forms a firm ball. Remove from heat. Add spices. Stir until syrup begins
to grain. Add nuts and stir until all nuts are coated with syrup and
well grained. Before coating hardens, separate each nut; place on waxed
paper to cool. Store in tightly closed jar or tin box.

YIELD: 1¼ pounds.




                                DESSERTS


APPLESAUCE PUDDING

  1½ cups dried bread crumbs
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ¼ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 tablespoons butter _or_ margarine, melted
  3 tablespoons GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2½ cups (No. 2 can) sweetened applesauce

Heat oven to 375° F. (moderate). Mix together first five ingredients.
Pat ½ of crumb mixture over bottom of a greased 6x10x2-inch baking pan.
Bake 10 minutes. Mix molasses and applesauce; pour over baked crumbs.
Cover with remaining crumbs. Bake 20 minutes or until crumbs are brown.
Serve plain, with lemon sauce, or with whipped cream.

YIELD: 6 to 8 servings.


MOLASSES COOKY REFRIGERATOR CAKE

  1 tablespoon GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  1 teaspoon flavoring
  1 cup heavy cream, whipped
  Crisp molasses cookies

Add molasses and flavoring to whipped cream. Arrange alternate layers of
cookies and whipped cream on a dessert plate, using 5 to 6 cookies for
each serving. Chill several hours or overnight. Just before serving,
garnish with additional whipped cream, and shaved bitter or semi-sweet
chocolate, if desired.

YIELD: 6 to 8 servings.


TAFFY ICE CREAM
(Set temperature control of refrigerator to coldest point)

  2 eggs, beaten
  ½ cup GRANDMA’S MOLASSES
  2 cups light cream
  ¹/₁₆ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  ½ cup chopped nuts (optional)

Thoroughly mix all ingredients. Pour into an ice tray; place in freezing
compartment to freeze until almost stiff. Transfer frozen mixture to a
bowl; beat until smooth. Add nuts, if used. Pour into ice tray. Freeze
until stiff (3 to 4 hours).

YIELD: 6 servings.

    [Illustration: Back cover]




                               FOOTNOTES




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Collated Table of Contents against book headings; added headings and
  TOC entries to synchronize.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GRANDMA'S RECIPES FOR MOTHER AND
DAUGHTER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
